content: draft: Add 'SLSA Verified Properties' including SLSA_BUILD_REPRODUCED (#1397)
slsa-framework/slsa: docs/spec/draft/verified-properties.md

---
title: SLSA Verified Properties
description: |
  SLSA allows 
---

> # SLSA Verified Properties

Reviewer: I haven't reviewed this PR yet, but where are you getting that they are a required part of L4? Or did I miss a change recently?

> # SLSA Verified Properties

Author: > I haven't reviewed this PR yet, but where are you getting that they are a required part of L4? Or did I miss a change recently?

+1 reproducible builds are meant to be entirely independent and not a part of any SLSA level (at least not yet).

> I think this is saying: Levels are a set of properties. Do you agree? Should we make that more clear?

It's an interesting idea, but instead I was trying to say "levels are cool and all, but there are some _other_ things SLSA might want to make a statement about."  I wasn't trying to say everything needed for a given SLSA level should have a property listed here.

> # SLSA Verified Properties

Reviewer: From @zachariahcox on the specification call
> some properties are worth more than the sum of their parts

While SLSA is typically focused on expressing the security state of an artifact
with [levels](principles#simple-levels-with-clear-outcomes), levels may not be
appropriate in all cases. Some software supply chain controls don't fit neatly
within existing SLSA levels or that do may exist with others that users are not
yet able to meet.  SLSA Verified Properties allows a common way to express those
properties (and their requirements) without needing to fit them into existing
levels or introduce new tracks.

These properties MAY be included in the `verifiedLevels` field of
[verification_summaries (VSAs)](verification_summary) when the VSA issuer
determines the requirements have been met.

## SLSA_SOURCE_TWO_PARTY_REVIEWED

Indicates the source code associated with this artifact has been reviewed by
two trusted persons.  This property MUST only be issued in accordance with the
[Source Track](source-requirements)'s

> [two-party-review](source-requirements#two-party-review) requirements.

Author: I'm not sure I follow.

Are you saying you're concerned folks, when implementing L4, will think they don't need provenance?

Do you have any language you'd like to suggest (even if it's rough, I can clean it up)?

> [two-party-review](source-requirements#two-party-review) requirements.

Reviewer: How about if we just add something like
```
The property MAY be added at any source level in which an SCS can make this claim.
```
? The property _can_ be added even if L4 is achieved. Maybe an SCS would want to do this this to simplify any verification that may require the property to be set. We _may_ find that guidance is helpful here in the future.

> [two-party-review](source-requirements#two-party-review) requirements.

Author: That's perfect.

## SLSA_BUILD_REPRODUCED

Indicates the referenced artifact has been reproduced by two or more builders.

This property MUST only be issued if the referenced artifact has
[build provenance](build-provenance) from two or more distinct, trusted,

> [Build Platforms](build-requirements#build-platform).

Author: Tried to make that a bit more clear.  PTAL?

---

# SLSA Verified Properties

While SLSA is typically focused on expressing the security state of an artifact
with [levels](principles#simple-levels-with-clear-outcomes), levels may not be
appropriate in all cases. Some software supply chain controls don't fit neatly
within existing SLSA levels or that do may exist with others that users are not
yet able to meet.  SLSA Verified Properties allows a common way to express those
properties (and their requirements) without needing to fit them into existing
levels or introduce new tracks.

These properties MAY be included in the `verifiedLevels` field of
[verification_summaries (VSAs)](verification_summary) when the VSA issuer
determines the requirements have been met.

## SLSA_SOURCE_TWO_PARTY_REVIEWED

Indicates the source code associated with this artifact has been reviewed by
two trusted persons.  This property MUST only be issued in accordance with the
[Source Track](source-requirements)'s
[two-party-review](source-requirements#two-party-review) requirements.

## SLSA_BUILD_REPRODUCED

Indicates the referenced artifact has been reproduced by two or more builders.

This property MUST only be issued if the referenced artifact has

> [build provenance](build-provenance) from two or more
> [Build Platforms](build-requirements#build-platform) which are trusted by the
> VSA issuer and believed to be independantly operated.

Reviewer: The wording feels a little awkward. Is this saying the same thing? Does it help?
```suggestion
[build provenance](build-provenance) from two or more independently
operated [Build Platforms](build-requirements#build-platform) which are
trusted by the VSA issuer.
```

We can also move the independent part up the the first sentence if it would help.

Author: yeah that is better, thanks!
